# Donation Mechanisms

The iHelp protocol’s smart contracts will be initially deployed on the Ethereum blockchain. The protocol will allow people to practice sustainable donation of interest generated by their capital. In its initial form, The iHelp protocol will be a platform for people anywhere in the world to donate interest generated in blue chip lending protocols, such as the Compound protocol (https://compound.finance) to specific charitable causes without incurring in principal loss. We seek to enable anyone willing to donate the time value of a specific amount of capital to participate sustainably in philanthropy towards meaningful causes. Users ("Helpers") can browse a list of charities from around the world and choose the causes they wish to deposit their capital towards. The interest generated by this deposited capital will be donated to the charities. Helpers can withdraw or reallocate their capital at anytime.

The protocol will also allow users to donate principal directly to charities. We prefer capital to accumulate and donate accrued interest as this is a long-term sustainable win-win for both capital contributors (_“Helpers”_) and charitable organizations. However, in certain circumstances and emergencies, it may be most appropriate to also contribute principal directly to charities.

The protocol will enable Helpers the option to receive a tax receipt for their donations, potentially allowing them to claim a tax deduction. Since the allocated capital is continuously generating interest that’s donated to their desired charitable causes, the Helper, depending on their individual circumstances, could continuously generate a tax-deduction.

##
